%!TEX root=cs440S2014-lab4.tex 
% mainfile: cs440S2014-lab4.tex 

\input{labspre.tex}

\usepackage[compact]{titlesec}

\begin{document} \MYTITLE{Laboratory Assignment Four: A Producer-Consumer Model with Semaphores}
\MYHEADERS{Laboratory Assignment Four}{Due: February 24, 2014}

\section*{Introduction}

Processes and threads are commonly used by the operating system itself and by the programs that run on the operating
system. In the previous laboratory assignment you learned how to implement and evaluate Java programs that use the {\tt
  synchronized} keyword to create a multi-threaded produced consumer model. In this laboratory assignment, you will
download, use, extend, and experiment with a multi-threaded producer-consumer model that uses semaphores,  As in the
previous assignment, you will add some features to the model that enable you to experiment with it more effectively.
Finally, you will systematically break various parts of the model in order to observe what can go wrong when
implementing multi-threaded Java programs that use semaphores.

\section*{Accessing the Producer-Consumer Model}

As in the previous assignment, you should change into directory for the Git repository that I use to share files with
you. Now, you can type the command {\tt git pull} to retrieve all of the files for this laboratory assignment. If this
step did not work correctly, then please see the instructor.  Finally, you should use your terminal window to browse
the files that are in this Git repository.  In particular, please look in the {\tt labs/lab4/src/} directory and use Vim
to study the Java programs that you find. What files are used to implement the producer-consumer model?

\section*{Understanding and Extending the Producer-Consumer Model}

After you have carefully studied the source code of the producer-consumer model, you can compile and execute it.  What
type of output does this program produce?  Will this program halt?  If yes, then how long will it take to halt?  If no,
then why does it not halt?  Finally, you should use the {\tt /usr/bin/time} program to time how long it takes to run the
{\tt ProducerConsumer}.

In order to better understanding how this program works, you should run it and then use the {\tt ps -eLf} and {\tt ps
  aux} commands to track what Java processes are started when the model executes. You can also use the {\tt
  gnome-system-monitor} to learn more about this program's behavior (to run this program you can type {\tt monitor} in
the Unity dash).  To the best of your ability, you should use these three programs --- and any others that you deem to
be useful and relevant --- to better understand how the {\tt ProducerConsumerModel} creates processes and/or threads.

\begin{sloppypar} As you will see from studying the source code, the current implementation of the {\tt
    ProducerConsumerModel} has several hard-coded variables that control its behavior. Leveraging the JCommander system
  that you learned how to use in a previous laboratory assignment, you should now implement a command-line interface for
  the {\tt ProducerConsumerModel}.  This interface should make it possible to specify whether or not debugging output
  must be produced, the number of data items that must be produced and consumed, and the total number of consumers.
  Details about the command-line arguments are provided in the comments of the {\tt ProducerConsumerModel.java} file.
\end{sloppypar}

\section*{Understanding Defects in Multi-Threaded Programs}

After you have finished writing the source code to support the command-line arguments for the {\tt
  ProducerConsumerModel}, you can take steps to systematically explore what happens if you make mistakes when
implementing multi-threaded Java programs.  Please ensure that you carefully make the following changes, recompile the
program, execute the program, record the incorrect program output, and comment on why the output is evident.  Once you
are done making the required defective implementations of the program, please return the modified code to the correct
state!

\begin{enumerate}

  \item For the {\tt get} and {\tt put} methods inside of the {\tt CubbyHole}, systematically add a new method signature
    that does not declare the method to be {\tt synchronized}.  That is, you should first run the {\tt
      ProducerConsumerModel} with just the incorrect {\tt get}, then with just the incorrect {\tt put}, and finally with
    both the wrong {\tt get} and {\tt put}.   What does the output of the defective {\tt ProducerConsumerModel} look
    like?  How can you explain this output?  

  \item Now, keep the version of the {\tt get} and {\tt put} methods that do not use the {\tt synchronized} keyword and
    separately comment out the {\tt while} loop in both of the {\tt get} and {\tt put} methods.  Finally, you should
    separately comment out the call to the {\tt notifyAll} method at the end of both of these methods.  What does the
    output of each of these {\tt ProducerConsumerModel}s look like? Can you explain why these defects produce the output
    that they do?

\end{enumerate}

\section*{Experimental Study of Performance}

Now, you should use the correct implementation of the {\tt ProducerConsumerModel} to conduct an experiment.  You should
measure the time overhead that is required to consume 10, 100, 1000, and 10,000 different data items for three different
numbers of consumers.  For example, you might use two, four, and eight different consumer threads for all of the
different number of data items.  You should conduct each individual experiment at least five times in order to
facilitate the calculation of arithmetic means.  After making sure that your timings do not include the cost associated
with performing console output, you should collect execution timings of the {\tt ProducerConsumerModel}.  

In preparation for writing your report, you may calculate arithmetic means by implementing your own Java program or by
using the R language for statistical computing.  Moreover, your report should explain your experimental goals and design
by clearly describing the commands that you type and the order in which they were typed.  You report should also include
tables of results that furnish the running times for each of the different {\tt ProducerConsumerModel} configurations.  

\section*{Summary of the Required Deliverables}

This assignment invites you to submit printed and signed versions of the following deliverables: 

\begin{enumerate} \item A paragraph that explains how multi-threaded Java programs use {\tt synchronized} \item A
    detailed discussion of the execution behavior of a multi-threaded Java program \item A comprehensive analysis of the
    output of each defective multi-threaded Java program \item The report from an experimental study that characterizes
    the performance of the model \end{enumerate}

Students are strongly encouraged to write their laboratory report in \LaTeX~and use tools such as the R language for
statistical computation to better analyze and visualize the empirical results. Please see the instructor if you have
questions about the requirements for these deliverables.

In adherence to the honor code, students should complete this assignment on an individual basis. While it is appropriate
for students in this class to have high-level conversations about the assignment, it is necessary to distinguish
carefully between the student who discusses the principles underlying a problem with others and the student who produces
assignments that are identical to, or merely variations on, someone else's work.  As such, deliverables that are nearly
identical to the work of others will be taken as evidence of violating the \mbox{Honor Code}.  



  \end{document}
